README.md, before:

<!--lint disable double-link-->
# Awesome Solana Blinks[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A community curated list of awesome Solana Actions and blinks

<!--lint disable remark-lint:no-emphasis-as-heading -->
**Disclaimer: This community-maintained repo does not reflect the views of any
official entity.**

<!--lint disable remark-lint:no-emphasis-as-heading -->
**Contributing:** Please read the [Contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md). Thank
you to all our
[contributors](https://github.com/solana-developers/awesome-blinks/graphs/contributors).

## Contents

- [What are Solana Actions](#what-are-solana-actions)
- [What are blockchain links (blinks)](#what-are-blockchain-links-blinks)
- [Developer Education](#developer-education)
- [Developer Tools](#developer-tools)
- [Wallets and Browser Extensions](#wallets-and-browser-extensions)
- [DeFi and Payments](#defi-and-payments)
- [Governance](#governance)
- [NFTs and Collectibles](#nfts-and-collectibles)
- [Content and Social Protocols](#content-and-social-protocols)

## What are Solana Actions

[Solana Actions](https://solana.com/docs/advanced/actions#actions) are
specification-compliant APIs that return transactions on the Solana blockchain
to be previewed, signed, and sent across a number of various contexts, including
QR codes, buttons + widgets, and websites across the internet. Actions make it
simple for developers to integrate the things you can do throughout the Solana
ecosystem right into your environment, allowing you to perform blockchain
transactions without needing to navigate away to a different app or webpage.

## What are blockchain links (blinks)

[Blockchain links](https://solana.com/docs/advanced/actions#blinks) – or blinks
– turn any Solana Action into a shareable, metadata-rich link. Blinks allow
Action-aware clients (browser extension wallets, bots) to display additional
capabilities for the user. On a website, a blink might immediately trigger a
transaction preview in a wallet without going to a decentralized app; in
Discord, a bot might expand the blink into an interactive set of buttons. This
pushes the ability to interact on-chain to any web surface capable of displaying
a URL.

## Developer Education

- [Documentation](https://solana.com/docs/advanced/actions) - Solana Actions in the Solana core documentation.
- [Video - How to Build Actions and Blinks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kCht01Ycif0)
- [Example Code Snippets](https://github.com/solana-developers/solana-actions/tree/main/examples/next-js) - NextJS project with example code snippets.
- [solana-actions.vercel.app](https://solana-actions.vercel.app/) - Deployed devnet example actions.

## Developer Tools

- [`@solana/actions`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@solana/actions) - SDK to quickly build Solana Actions.
<!--  -->
- [dial.to](https://dial.to) - Dialect's blink interstitial tool.
- [Dialect's Dashboard](https://dashboard.dialect.to) - Hub for building actions & blinks.
- [Znap](https://github.com/heavy-duty/znap) - Framework to build APIs compatible with the Solana Actions spec.

## Wallets and Browser Extensions

- [Phantom](https://phantom.app) - Enable blinks natively in Phantom Wallet.
- [Backpack](https://backpack.app) - Enable blinks natively in Backpack Wallet.
- [Dialect Blinks](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/dialect-blinks/mhklkgpihchphohoiopkidjnbhdoilof) - Enable blinks using any wallet.

## DeFi and Payments

- [Jupiter Swap](https://jup.ag/swap/USDC-SOL) - Swap any token to another.
- [Sphere](https://dial.to/sphere/pay/paymentLink_ea7773f8e9ca45de8aa6072311fe31a6) - Swap any token to another.
- [Sanctum](https://app.sanctum.so/trade/SOL-hSOL) - Liquid Staking Tokens on Solana.
- [Meteora](https://app.meteora.ag/pools/HifGMRtyVovedmEzLmnzhKmWTsxnaPSHVYqJnJiEarv7) - Meteora referral blinks for memecoins.

## Governance

- [Helium's HIP voting](https://heliumvote.com/mobile/proposals/2z9WenqeZvdCuPEDJBKn4dDPequj99SURYYZNUtooyfN) - Vote on Helium's HIP proposals.
- [Realms.today](https://dial.to/realms/vote/dao/Dean%27s%20List%20Network%20State/proposal/G3av7swjUPKjD4b5VisUzvK1MWoGLvGMWH8Fagy7tXWF) - Vote on DAO governance proposals on Realms.

## NFTs and Collectibles

- [Tensor.trade](https://www.tensor.trade/trade/tensorians) - Trade NFTs on Tensor.
- [truffle.tech](https://dial.to/?action=solana-action:https://truffle.tech/solana-actions/mint/test-solana-actions) - Mint NFTs from collections.
- [3.land](https://3.land/item/FqpWuEUcvAmnpSfo5EmigPYd8XYGyWbwzty8zrqmy6Qj) - Minting via blinks.
- [dReader Comics](https://dreader.app/mint/48) - Mint comics from the dReader platform.

## Content and Social Protocols

- [Access Protocol](https://hub.accessprotocol.co/creators/the-block) - Subscribe to content by staking assets.

Commit message:

feat: express example from SolDapper

README.md, after:

<!--lint disable double-link-->
# Awesome Solana Blinks[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A community curated list of awesome Solana Actions and blinks

<!--lint disable remark-lint:no-emphasis-as-heading -->
**Disclaimer: This community-maintained repo does not reflect the views of any
official entity.**

<!--lint disable remark-lint:no-emphasis-as-heading -->
**Contributing:** Please read the [Contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md). Thank
you to all our
[contributors](https://github.com/solana-developers/awesome-blinks/graphs/contributors).

## Contents

- [What are Solana Actions](#what-are-solana-actions)
- [What are blockchain links (blinks)](#what-are-blockchain-links-blinks)
- [Developer Education](#developer-education)
- [Developer Tools](#developer-tools)
- [Wallets and Browser Extensions](#wallets-and-browser-extensions)
- [DeFi and Payments](#defi-and-payments)
- [Governance](#governance)
- [NFTs and Collectibles](#nfts-and-collectibles)
- [Content and Social Protocols](#content-and-social-protocols)

## What are Solana Actions

[Solana Actions](https://solana.com/docs/advanced/actions#actions) are
specification-compliant APIs that return transactions on the Solana blockchain
to be previewed, signed, and sent across a number of various contexts, including
QR codes, buttons + widgets, and websites across the internet. Actions make it
simple for developers to integrate the things you can do throughout the Solana
ecosystem right into your environment, allowing you to perform blockchain
transactions without needing to navigate away to a different app or webpage.

## What are blockchain links (blinks)

[Blockchain links](https://solana.com/docs/advanced/actions#blinks) – or blinks
– turn any Solana Action into a shareable, metadata-rich link. Blinks allow
Action-aware clients (browser extension wallets, bots) to display additional
capabilities for the user. On a website, a blink might immediately trigger a
transaction preview in a wallet without going to a decentralized app; in
Discord, a bot might expand the blink into an interactive set of buttons. This
pushes the ability to interact on-chain to any web surface capable of displaying
a URL.

## Developer Education

- [Documentation](https://solana.com/docs/advanced/actions) - Solana Actions in the Solana core documentation.
- [Video - How to Build Actions and Blinks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kCht01Ycif0)
- [Example Code Snippets](https://github.com/solana-developers/solana-actions/tree/main/examples/next-js) - NextJS project with example code snippets.
- [solana-actions.vercel.app](https://solana-actions.vercel.app/) - Deployed devnet example actions.

## Developer Tools

- [`@solana/actions`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@solana/actions) - SDK to quickly build Solana Actions.
<!--  -->
- [dial.to](https://dial.to) - Dialect's blink interstitial tool.
- [Dialect's Dashboard](https://dashboard.dialect.to) - Hub for building actions & blinks.
- [Znap](https://github.com/heavy-duty/znap) - Framework to build APIs compatible with the Solana Actions spec.
- [ExpressJS Server for Actions](https://github.com/McDegens-DAO/solana-action-express) - Made by [SolDapper](https://x.com/SolDapper) for McDegensDAO

## Wallets and Browser Extensions

- [Phantom](https://phantom.app) - Enable blinks natively in Phantom Wallet.
- [Backpack](https://backpack.app) - Enable blinks natively in Backpack Wallet.
- [Dialect Blinks](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/dialect-blinks/mhklkgpihchphohoiopkidjnbhdoilof) - Enable blinks using any wallet.

## DeFi and Payments

- [Jupiter Swap](https://jup.ag/swap/USDC-SOL) - Swap any token to another.
- [Sphere](https://dial.to/sphere/pay/paymentLink_ea7773f8e9ca45de8aa6072311fe31a6) - Swap any token to another.
- [Sanctum](https://app.sanctum.so/trade/SOL-hSOL) - Liquid Staking Tokens on Solana.
- [Meteora](https://app.meteora.ag/pools/HifGMRtyVovedmEzLmnzhKmWTsxnaPSHVYqJnJiEarv7) - Meteora referral blinks for memecoins.

## Governance

- [Helium's HIP voting](https://heliumvote.com/mobile/proposals/2z9WenqeZvdCuPEDJBKn4dDPequj99SURYYZNUtooyfN) - Vote on Helium's HIP proposals.
- [Realms.today](https://dial.to/realms/vote/dao/Dean%27s%20List%20Network%20State/proposal/G3av7swjUPKjD4b5VisUzvK1MWoGLvGMWH8Fagy7tXWF) - Vote on DAO governance proposals on Realms.

## NFTs and Collectibles

- [Tensor.trade](https://www.tensor.trade/trade/tensorians) - Trade NFTs on Tensor.
- [truffle.tech](https://dial.to/?action=solana-action:https://truffle.tech/solana-actions/mint/test-solana-actions) - Mint NFTs from collections.
- [3.land](https://3.land/item/FqpWuEUcvAmnpSfo5EmigPYd8XYGyWbwzty8zrqmy6Qj) - Minting via blinks.
- [dReader Comics](https://dreader.app/mint/48) - Mint comics from the dReader platform.

## Content and Social Protocols

- [Access Protocol](https://hub.accessprotocol.co/creators/the-block) - Subscribe to content by staking assets.
